docs(hub/plugin) add session plugin docs (#1231)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/kong-inc/session/index.md

---
name: Session
publisher: Kong Inc.
version: 1.0.1-x

> desc: Support sessions for Kong authentication plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
desc: Supports sessions for Kong Authentication Plugins.
```

description: |

>   Kong Session plugin can be used to manage browser sessions for APIs proxied 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Kong Session plugin can be used to manage browser sessions for APIs proxied 
```

  through the Kong API Gateway. It provides configuration and management for
  session data storage, encyption, renewal, expiry, and sending browser cookies
  🍪. It is built using
  <a href="https://github.com/bungle/lua-resty-session">lua-resty-session</a>

type: plugin
categories:
  - authentication

source_url: https://github.com/Kong/kong-plugin-session

kong_version_compatibility:
  community_edition:
    compatible:
      - 1.0.x
      - 0.15.x

  enterprise_edition:
    compatible:
      - 0.35-x

params:
  name: session
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: false
  config:
    - name: secret
      required: false
      default: random number generated from `kong.utils.random_string`
      value_in_examples: opensesame
      description:
        The secret that is used in keyed HMAC generation.​
    - name: cookie_name
      required: false
      default: '`session`'
      description: The name of the cookie
    - name: cookie_lifetime
      required: false
      default: 3600
      description: The duration (in seconds) that the session will remain open
    - name: cookie_renew
      required: false
      default: 600

>       description: The duration (in seconds) of a session remaining at which point the plugin renews the session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: The duration (in seconds) of a session remaining at which point the Plugin renews the session
```

    - name: cookie_path
      required: false
      default: "/"
      description: The resource in the host where the cookie is available
    - name: cookie_domain
      required: false
      default: Set using Nginx variable host, but may be overridden
      description: The domain with which the cookie is intended to be exchanged
    - name: cookie_samesite
      required: false 
      default: "Strict"

>       description: 'Determines whether and how a cookie may be sent with cross-site requests. "Strict": the browser will send cookies only if the request originated from the website that set the cookie. "Lax": same-site cookies are withheld on cross-domain subrequests, but will be sent when a user navigates to the URL from an external site, for example, by following a link. "off": disables the same-site attribute so that a cookie may be sent with cross-site requests. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies#SameSite_cookies'

Reviewer: @levfishbluefish , this is copied directly from MDN; is this citation link adequate?

    - name: storage
      required: false 
      default: "cookie"
      description: "Determines where the session data is stored. `kong`: stores encrypted session data into Kong's current database strategy (e.g. Postgres, Cassandra); the cookie will not contain any session data. `cookie`: stores encrypted session data within the cookie itself."
    - name: logout_methods
      required: false 
      default: '[`"POST"`, `"DELETE"`]'
      description: "The methods that may be used to end sessions: POST, DELETE, GET. Do not change this property; doing so will break the ability to use Kong Manager."
    - name: logout_query_arg
      required: false 
      default: session_logout
      description: The query argument passed to logout requests. Do not change this property; doing so will break the ability to use Kong Manager.
    - name: logout_post_arg
      required: false 
      default: session_logout
      description: The post argument passed to logout requests. Do not change this property; doing so will break the ability to use Kong Manager.

---

## Usage

> Kong Session plugin can be configured globally or per entity (service, route, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kong Session plugin can be configured globally or per entity (e.g., Service, Route)
```

> and is always used in conjunction with another Kong authentication [plugin]. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and is always used in conjunction with another Kong Authentication [Plugin]. This
```

> plugin is intended to work similarly to the [multiple authentication] setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugin is intended to work similarly to the [multiple authentication] setup.
```

> Once Kong Session plugin is enabled in conjunction with an authentication plugin,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Kong Session plugin is enabled in conjunction with an authentication plugin,
```

it will run prior to credential verification. If no session is found, then the

> authentication plugin will run and credentials will be checked as normal. If the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentication Plugin will run and credentials will be checked as normal. If the
```

> credential verification is successful, then the session plugin will create a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
credential verification is successful, then the Session plugin will create a new
```

> session for usage with subsequent requests. When a new request comes in, and a

Reviewer: (new paragraph)

```suggestion
session for usage with subsequent requests. 

When a new request comes in, and a
```

> session is present, then Kong Session plugin will attach the ngx.ctx variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
session is present, then the Kong Session plugin will attach the ngx.ctx variables
```

> to let the authentication plugin know that authentication has already occured via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to let the Authentication Plugin know that authentication has already occurred via
```

session validation. Since this configuration is a logical OR scenario, it is desired

> that anonymous access be forbidden, then the [request termination] plugin should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that anonymous access be forbidden, then the [Request Termination] Plugin should
```

be configured on an anonymous consumer. Failure to do so will allow unauthorized
requests. For more information please see section on [multiple authentication].

For usage with [key-auth] plugin

1. Create an example Service and a Route

    Issue the following cURL request to create `example-service` pointing to 
    mockbin.org, which will echo the request:

    ```bash
    $ curl -i -X POST \
      --url http://localhost:8001/services/ \
      --data 'name=example-service' \
      --data 'url=http://mockbin.org/request'
    ```

    Add a route to the Service:

    ```bash
    $ curl -i -X POST \
      --url http://localhost:8001/services/example-service/routes \
      --data 'paths[]=/sessions-test'
    ```

    The url `http://localhost:8000/sessions-test` will now echo whatever is being 
    requested.

> 1. Configure the key-auth Plugin for the Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configure the Key Auth Plugin for the Service
```

>     Issue the following cURL request to add the key-auth plugin to the Service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Issue the following cURL request to add the Key Auth plugin to the Service:
```

      --url http://localhost:8000/sessions-test?apikey=open_sesame
    ```

    The response should now have the `Set-Cookie` header. Make sure that this
    cookie works.

    If cookie looks like this:
    ```
    Set-Cookie: session=emjbJ3MdyDsoDUkqmemFqw..|1544654411|4QMKAE3I-jFSgmvjWApDRmZHMB8.; Path=/; SameSite=Strict; HttpOnly
    ```

    Use it like this:

    ```bash
      $ curl -i -X GET \
        --url http://localhost:8000/sessions-test \
        -H "cookie:session=emjbJ3MdyDsoDUkqmemFqw..|1544654411|4QMKAE3I-jFSgmvjWApDRmZHMB8."
    ```

    This request should succeed, and `Set-Cookie` response header will not appear
    until renewal period.

1. You can also now verify cookie is attached to browser session: Navigate to 
  http://localhost:8000/sessions-test  which should return `403` 
  and see the message "So long and thanks for all the fish!"
1. In same browser session, navigate to http://localhost:8000/sessions-test?apikey=open_sesame 
  which should return `200`, authenticated via key-auth key query param.
1. In same browser session, navigate to http://localhost:8000/sessions-test, 
  which will now use the session cookie that was granted by the Kong Session 

>   plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Plugin.
```

### Defaults

> By default, Kong Session plugin favors security using a `Secure`, `HTTPOnly`, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Kong Session Plugin favors security using a `Secure`, `HTTPOnly`, 
```

`Samesite=Strict` cookie. `cookie_domain` is automatically set using Nginx 
variable host, but can be overridden.

### Session Data Storage

The session data can be stored in the cookie itself (encrypted) `storage=cookie`, 
or inside [Kong](#-kong-storage-adapter). The session data stores two context
variables:

```
ngx.ctx.authenticated_consumer.id
ngx.ctx.authenticated_credential.id
```

## 🦍 Kong Storage Adapter

> Kong Session plugin extends the functionality of [lua-resty-session] with its own

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kong Session Plugin extends the functionality of [lua-resty-session] with its own
```

session data storage adapter when `storage=kong`. This will store encrypted

> session data into the current database strategy (e.g. postgres, cassandra etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
session data into the current database strategy (e.g., Postgres, Cassandra)
```

and the cookie will not contain any session data. Data stored in the database is

> encrypted and the cookie will contain only the session id, expiration time and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
encrypted and the cookie will contain only the session ID, expiration time and 
```

> HMAC signature. Sessions will use built-in Kong DAO ttl mechanism which destroys 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HMAC signature. Sessions will use the built-in Kong DAO `ttl` mechanism which destroys 
```

sessions after specified `cookie_lifetime` unless renewal occurs during normal 
browser activity. It is recommended that the application logout via XHR request 

> or similar to manually handle redirects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or something similar to manually handle redirects.
```

## 👋🏻 Logging Out

> It is typical to provide users the ability to log out, or manually destroy, their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is typical to provide users the ability to log out, i.e., to manually destroy their
```

> current session. Logging out is done via either query params or POST params in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
current session. Logging out is possible with either query params or `POST` params in 
```

> the request url. The configs `logout_methods` allows the plugin to limit logging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the request url. The configs `logout_methods` allows the Plugin to limit logging
```

out based on HTTP verb. When `logout_query_arg` is set, it will check the 

> presence of the url query param specified, and likewise when `logout_post_arg`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
presence of the URL query param specified, and likewise when `logout_post_arg`
```

> is set it will check the presence of the specified variable in the request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is set, it will check the presence of the specified variable in the request body.
```

Allowed HTTP verbs are `GET`, `DELETE`, and `POST`. When there is a session 

> present and the incoming request is a logout request, Kong Session plugin will 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
present and the incoming request is a logout request, the Kong Session Plugin will 
```

> return a 200 before continuing in the plugin run loop, and the request will not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
return a 200 before continuing in the Plugin run loop, and the request will not
```

continue to the upstream.

## Known Limitations

Due to limitations of OpenResty, the `header_filter` phase cannot connect to the
database, which poses a problem for initial retrieval of cookie (fresh session). 
There is a small window of time where cookie is sent to client, but database 
insert has not yet been committed, as database call is in `ngx.timer` thread. 
Current workaround is to wait some interval of time (~100-500ms) after 
`Set-Cookie` header is sent to client before making subsequent requests. This is
_not_ a problem during session renewal period as renew happens in `access` phase.

> [plugin]: https://docs.konghq.com/hub/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Plugin]: https://docs.konghq.com/hub/
```

[lua-resty-session]: https://github.com/bungle/lua-resty-session
[multiple authentication]: https://docs.konghq.com/0.14.x/auth/#multiple-authentication
[key-auth]: https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/key-auth/

> [request termination]: https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/request-termination/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Request Termination]: https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/request-termination/
```

---
name: Session
publisher: Kong Inc.
version: 1.0.1-x

desc: Support sessions for Kong Authentication Plugins.
description: |
  The Kong Session Plugin can be used to manage browser sessions for APIs proxied 
  through the Kong API Gateway. It provides configuration and management for

>   session data storage, encyption, renewal, expiry, and sending browser cookies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  session data storage, encryption, renewal, expiry, and sending browser cookies.
```

>   🍪. It is built using

Reviewer: Sorry, can't do emojis. 😞 

```suggestion
  It is built using
```

    ```

    This request should succeed, and `Set-Cookie` response header will not appear
    until renewal period.

1. You can also now verify cookie is attached to browser session: Navigate to 
  http://localhost:8000/sessions-test  which should return `403` 
  and see the message "So long and thanks for all the fish!"
1. In same browser session, navigate to http://localhost:8000/sessions-test?apikey=open_sesame 
  which should return `200`, authenticated via key-auth key query param.
1. In same browser session, navigate to http://localhost:8000/sessions-test, 
  which will now use the session cookie that was granted by the Kong Session 
  **Plugin**.

### Defaults

By default, the Kong Session **Plugin** favors security using a `Secure`, `HTTPOnly`, 
`Samesite=Strict` cookie. `cookie_domain` is automatically set using Nginx 
variable host, but can be overridden.

### Session Data Storage

The session data can be stored in the cookie itself (encrypted) `storage=cookie`, 
or inside [Kong](#-kong-storage-adapter). The session data stores two context
variables:

```
ngx.ctx.authenticated_consumer.id
ngx.ctx.authenticated_credential.id
```

> ## 🦍 Kong Storage Adapter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Kong Storage Adapter
```

the Kong Session **Plugin** extends the functionality of [lua-resty-session] with its own
session data storage adapter when `storage=kong`. This will store encrypted
session data into the current database strategy (e.g. postgres, cassandra etc.)
and the cookie will not contain any session data. Data stored in the database is
encrypted and the cookie will contain only the session id, expiration time and 
HMAC signature. Sessions will use the built-in Kong DAO `ttl` mechanism which destroys 
sessions after specified `cookie_lifetime` unless renewal occurs during normal 
browser activity. It is recommended that the application logout via XHR request 
(or something similar) to manually handle redirects.

> ## 👋🏻 Logging Out

Reviewer: 👋🏻emojis. 😞 

```suggestion
## Logging Out
```
